---
layout: post
title:  "As I Always Say..."
subtitle: "A List of Mottos"
date:   2020-06-09 14:54:33 -0500
categories: "contact"
comments: true
---

I’m pretty unreligious. But without a religion, one is left susceptible to the temptations of nihilism, which can easily send somebody down a rabbit hole based in Bad Faith. And that sort of thought allows one’s heart to succumb to hate. That isn’t fun. So, I’ve started cultivating my own little list of values. My Catholic friend called them my Commandments. I think that name is too authoritative, though. It’s never that serious. So, I call them mottos, just something to repeat and believe as the days pass by. This list will be worked on and cultivated over the progression of this website, hopefully. Here’s what I have so far. <!-- more -->

<ul style="font-family: gentle;"><li>“Life is too short to be boring.”</li>
<li>“People only do what they want.”</li>
<li>“People make sacrifices for the things they want.”</li>
<li>“Tread carefully and carry a big stick.”</li>
<li>“Even a broken clock is right twice a day.”</li>
<li>“It’s lonely on top.”</li>
<li>“People are people too.”</li>
<li>“Existance is resistance.”</li>
<li>“It’s only life.”</li>
<li>“Different strokes for different folks.”</li>
<li>“The nature of life is suffering.”</li>
<li>“Każde grabie do siebie grabią.”</li>
<li>“We're only animals, aren't we?”</li>
<li>“Did you <a href="/self-care/2019/07/10/on-desire/">cave</a>?"</li>
<li>“Time heals all wounds.”</li>
<li>“You don’t always get what you want.”</li>
<li>“Things could always be worse.”</li>
<li>”Why play with fire if you can’t handle the heat?”</li>
<li>“Either do something well or not at all.”</li>
<li>“Self-awareness is sexy.”</li>
<li>“Don't bite the hand that feeds you.”</li>
<li>“I love getting to know people the way I know the people I love.”</li>
<li>“Nie mój cyrk, nie moje małpy.”</li>
<li>“Whenever somebody hurts you, they’ve probably got their own issues going on.”</li>
<li>“Do as you please, and please as you do.”</li>
<li>“Wherever you go, there you are.”</li>
<li>“<a href="https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/birds_of_a_feather_flock_together#Synonyms" target="_blank">Birds of a feather</a> flock together.”</li>
<li>“Fuck this noise.”</li>
<li>“Be quick, but don't hurry.”</li>
<li>“It's fun 'till it's not.”</li>
<li>“Patience is a virtue.”</li>
<li>“You can't help somebody who doesn't want to help themselves.”</li>
<li>“When the going gets tough, the tough get going.”</li>
<li>“Variety is the spice of life.”</li>
</ul>
